.TH "MJOIN" "1" "October 6, 2018" "Unix" "General Commands Manual"
.nh
.if n .ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBmjoin\fR
\- Performs a relational join operation on two or more files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 6n
\fBmjoin\fR
[\fB\-d\fR\ \fIdelimiter\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR\ \fIfield\fR]
[\fB\-j\fR\ \fIjoin-type\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR\ |\ \fB\-S\fR]
\fIfile\ file\fR\ [\fI...\fR]
.br
.PD 0
.HP 6n
\fBmjoin\fR
\fB\-v\fR
.PD
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
\fBmjoin\fR
provides a convenient wrapper around the standard
join(1)
utility, allowing joining of two or more files with optional sorting of
the input data.
.PP
The options are as follows:
.TP 8n
\fB\-d\fR \fIdelimiter\fR
Use the specified single character delimiter as the field delimiter.
The default delimiter is a comma.
.TP 8n
\fB\-f\fR \fIfield\fR
Join all files on the specified field number.
The default join field is the first field in each file.
.TP 8n
\fB\-j\fR \fIjoin-type\fR
Perform a relational join of the specified type.
The
\fIjoin-type\fR
option argument must be one of
\fIinner\fR,
\fIleft\fR,
\fIright\fR,
or
\fIfull\fR.
The default is to perform a full outer join.
.TP 8n
\fB\-s\fR
Sort the input data on the join field.
The default is to assume that the data is already lexicographically
sorted on the appropriate field.
.TP 8n
\fB\-S\fR
Auto-detect whether sorting is needed.
This will invoke
sort(1)
with its
\fB\-C\fR
option on each input file to detect unsorted data.
The data will then be sorted appropriately if needed.
This means possible calling
sort(1)
twice for each input file.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
\fBmjoin\fR
uses the following environment variables:
.TP 8n
\fRTMPDIR\fR
Directory in which to create temporary files.
This variable is used by
\fBmktemp\fR
which will revert to use
\fI/tmp\fR
if the variable is not set.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To be written.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
join(1),
mktemp(1),
sort(1)
.SH "AUTHORS"
Andreas Kusalananda K\[:a]h\[:a]ri <\fIandreas.kahari@nbis.se\fR>
.SH "CAVEATS"
To be written.
